# DataBaseandAlg

This artifact was made up of different lessons, labs and assignments from my Algorithms and Data Structures class. I took several different assignments and combined them into a bigger project. The program loads information from a .csv file into different data structures, which the user can then pick from. The user can choose between a vector, a binary tree, or a hash table. Then depending on the data structure they selected, there are different actions they can take. Such as sorting in different ways, searching for a specific item, etc. In addition, all these actions have a timer included that tracks how long each action takes, so that the user can compare the different data structures and different algorithms against one another.

My goal is to become a back-end developer. A huge part of that is dealing with data structures and algorithms. That is why I chose this artifact to show my skills in this area. This entire program is made up of data structures and different algorithms that work with them to complete different goals and track their efficiency. This artifact was improved by putting these different components together. It is made up from several different assignments and put together so they can be easily compared for efficiency.

I did meet all the goals I set out to when I originally selected the enhancement. Now that I have made the enhancements, there is one additional piece that I want to improve upon even further. As it stands, the entire program is on one file. I would like to find a way to break these up into different files for each data structure and then have the main function in its own file. I believe this would greatly improve the organization of project and help the overall readability.

The main issue I faced while working on this enhancement was not having access to the resource files. There was an issue of me unexpectedly losing access to the virtual desktop. I had all the cpp files I needed, but without the resource files I was not able to load any of the information into the data structures or test the program at all. I created the program as best as I could without being able to run it or do any testing. This really made me focus on what I was doing and why I was doing it. Then, I went through the program testing it on paper, without really being able to run it. This was a tremendous learning opportunity, as it forced me to work and look at the program in a new way. I was able to catch and fix a quite a few bugs so by the time I received the resource files I needed, everything worked smoothly.
